
Missing Content (Roadmap)
If you know any information regarding the missing information below, you are welcome to contact one of the moderators and we will add the material as soon as possible!

    How to acquire some of the deaths?
    Do methods exist to more reliably win combat?

The Portraits (Characters)
Be sure to use CTRL+F to find specific achievements and information quickly. You won't need to check the contents and scroll through all the guide!

    The Priest
    The Diplomat
    The Spy
    The Prince (your son)
    The Queen
    The Nobleman
    The Farmer
    The Bird
    The Doctor
    The Duke
    The General
    The Merchant
    The Soldier
    The Jester
    The Monk
    The Witch
    The Foreign
    The Lady
    The Courtesan
    The Barbarian - this information was provided by Anders!
    The Barbarian is the only character which can be hard to meet if you are not actively attempting to find him, thus copy the following steps if you are missing him! Start a fight with the Vikings if possible and exterminate all the warriors after you won the war when provided the option!
    The Royal Dog (The Devil)
    The Black Bird
    The Dragon
    The Ghost
    The Dungeon/Pungeon
    The Nun
    The Executioner
    The Explorator
    The Prophet
    The Lord
    The Werewolf
    The Homunculus
    The Minstrel
    The Painter
    The Rival
    The Skeleton
    The Fortune Teller


Royal Deeds (Quests)

    The Young
    Govern for at least 5 years.

    The Duelist
    Win a duel.

    The Dazed
    Try the blue one - reffering to the blue mushroom.

    The Wicked
    Recruit the Spy.

    The Patron
    Recruit the Minstrel.

    The Blessed
    Meet the clumsy Prophet.

    The Lover
    Start a Romance.

    The Target
    Hear about the conspiracy.

    The Tender
    Arrange a bestial honeymoon - in depth walkthrough here.[www.appunwrapper.com]

    The Doomed
    Unmask the Senator - in depth walkthrough here.[www.appunwrapper.com]

    The Pivot
    Pass the first millennium.

    The Wise
    Recruit the Doctor.

    The Sorcerer
    Meet the Witch.

    The Creepy
    Lose yourself in the dungeon.

    The Trump
    Govern like a winner - allow the Jester to plan your festive activities.

    The Alchemist
    Find the Frozen Blood.

    The Settler
    Discover a new world.

    The Boyfriend
    Date a pigeon - in depth walkthrough here.[www.appunwrapper.com]

    The Pious
    Build a cathedral.

    The Greedy
    Build a personal fortune.

    The Bigot
    Build 5 churches.

    The Devious
    Invent modern politics.

    The Devil
    Meet the Devil.

    The Father
    Have an heir.

    The Mage
    Talk to the Vase.

    The Crusader
    Start a crusade.

    The Peacemaker
    End a crusade.

    The Seer
    See the future.

    The Coward
    Look somewhere else - agree to child labor.

    The One-Handed
    Lose a limb. - allow the doctor to saw off your arm upon having an accident when hunting. or go hunting and have a care-center built by the witch.

    The Old
    Govern for at least 20 years.

    The Ancient
    Govern for at least 40 years.

    The Grizzled
    Govern for at least 60 years.

    The Target
    Hear about the conspiracy.

    The Alchemist
    Find the Frozen Blood.

    The Musician
    Write a war song.

    The Tender
    Arrange a bestial honeymoon.

    The Senile
    Govern for at least 80 years.

    The Fossil
    Govern for at least 100 years.

    The Eternal
    Govern for at least 200 years.

    The Survivor
    Trick the Devil.

    The Hat
    Identify the terrorist cell - in depth walkthrough here.[www.appunwrapper.com]

    The Writer
    Discover Printing - triggered by the Doctor.	



Memento Mori (Deaths)
Anders contributed a huge amount to this section!

Spheres of Influence

Church = Religion
Population = People
Army = Military
Money = Wealth

    1. Die By Drowning
    After getting kidnapped, you will be blindfolded. Do not follow the guiding voice and you will proceed to fall into a river and drown.
    Reach 0 in military and wealthsimultaneously.

    2. Burn On The Cross
    Reach 0 in church and any other sphere.

    3. Die In The Dungeon
    Reach 100 in military.

    4. Have A Peaceful Reign
    Reach 100 in population.

    5. Natural Death
    Reach 60+ years to trigger this death by chance.

    6. Die By The Plague
    Let the doctor be the executioner.
    Go hunting upon being provided the option and suffer a terrible accident by chance.
    Die with the Black Plague] still in effect.

    7. Have Your Head On A Spike
    Reach 0 in religion.

    8. Get Your Limbs Torn Off
    Reach 100 in religion.

    9. Get Poisoned
    Reach 0 in military when The Rival is in town.

    10. Get Stabbed
    Reach 0 in military.

    11. Get Hung
    Reach 100 in military when you have a heir (The Prince aka your son).

    12. Get Beheaded - MISSING INFORMATION
    Wait till the general says that he found a body without fingers. Say no when he asks you to reinforce the garrison! If you can get your army to 100, you will get the death.

    13. Get Torn Into Two Pieces
    Reach 0 in people and simultaneously reaching 100 in military while being on a crusade.

    14. Reign Over Pigeons
    Reach 0 in people.

    15. Jump Out Of The Window
    Reach 100 in people and army. Please note that this is slightly speculative, thus, please let us know if this is not the case.

    16. Break Your Heart
    Reach 100 in wealth while being in love with a character.

    17. Die From Eating Too Much
    Reach 100 in wealth.

    18. Get Eaten By Dogs
    Reach 0 in wealth.

    19. Get Exiled
    Reach 0 in wealth.

    20. Die By Karma
    Kill all the barbarians after winning the war and The Barbarian might duel you after. Lose this duel.

    21. Get Eaten By Rats
    Die in the dungeon.

    22. Die Through Betrayal
    Let your son betray and kill you.

    23. Trick The Devil
    See in depth guide further below.

    24. Get Trapped In The Medieval Ages
    Reach the year 2000 and reset the game (hold in R to initiate reset).

    25. Rot In Hell For Eternity
    Say yes to the spirit after acquiring the Devil's curse.

    26. Get Burnt To Death
    Refuse to leave after saving the damsel in distress from the dragon.


If you did not understand some of the instruction or were unable to find what you were looking for, try this guide on deaths too:
Memento mori / All the deaths 
Una guía para Reigns
Por: Miraglyth
An album of all 29 deaths in the game.
Dueling (Combat)
From experience, enemies will mostly attack, then defend, then attack, then defend.

Exceptions

    Praying = If the enemy prays, you will be forced to pray in the following turn!
    Throwing Daggers = Some skeletons might throw a dagger at you.
    Deflections = Some enemies can deflect your attacks, especially throwing daggers.


Tips

    Defend when the enemy attacks.
    Attack when the enemy defends.
    You can preview your movements by hovering over the card option.
    Try to stay at the center of the board to reduce the chances of getting knocked off.

The Dungeon (Pungeon)
The Dungeon becomes surprisingly easy after a few playthroughs, do not worry!

Basics

    Golden doors will provide you with a chest which might contain a key.
    Find the air door after having acquired a key to escape the dungeon.
    While in the dungeon, you will constantly lose value in all of your spheres.
    Skeletons might confront you, fighting them and winning will provide a sharp increase in all of your spheres.


Tips

    Always fight skeletons unless your stats are extremely high.
    Act fast; the more time you spend contemplating, the more stats you lose and the more likely you are to encounter another skeleton whereby you would be forced to fight it.
    Learn the door symbols to make faster decisions; you wouldn't need to read the text anymore.
    Do not open arsenic doors as they could be trapped.
    Loss of stats is paused during fights!


Key Information
The doors seem to always be the same. As such, you can figure out the patterns relatively fast. The door to pick next will nearly always be hinted at on the text provided in a room.

Dangers

    Salt + Arsenic
    Arsenic + Breaking A Wall


Spoilers


Finding A Lover (Romances)

    The Jester might tell you that the public would love to see you with a lady. Agreeing to this will trigger a lady to ask you to spend time together in public.

    The Queen sometimes invites her sister over for festive activities. The sister will then proceed to ask you why the queen does not like her. Tell her that it might be your fault and tell her that you love her. Fight her but attempt to lose the fight. She will see that you are wondered and takes care of you!

    The Mage might offer to teach you in white magic. Say yes and choose the love option. Choose one of the characters she provides as an option to fall in love with.

Dog(e) Interactions! (Transport)
The dog provides several different options with the following effects:

    Throne Room = No Effect
    Dungeon = Enters the dungeon.
    Play Ball = Play ball with the dog ->
    Wagon = See the Fortune Teller.
    Forest = Grants you the ability to see stat changes and current stat values at the expense of being unable to see the magnitude some cards have on certain spheres.

The Bird (Black or White)
In your first few playthroughs, you will be met with the option to trust a white or a black bird. Whichever one you trust, will stick with you for the rest of the playthrough. The two birds provide different cards and effects on your spheres throughout this playthrough till you reset your game. Be sure to pick the other bird on your next playthrough to see its respective cards and fill up your total cards seen stat if you are looking to complete the game!

The Vase (Important)
You will meet The Vase inevitably through The Doctor. The Vase will ask for you to fetch it the Frozen Blood.

    Wait for the prompt by The Mage to teach you some white magic.
    She will ask you to prove yourself worthy through completing her quest (survive 15 years after talking to her).
    Completion of the quest will provide you an option for a Red Gem or The Crown; select the Red Gem.


Perks

    The Vase will provide you with free stats from time to time.
    The Vase can randomly grant you eternal life, allowing you to reach an infinitely high score if you keep your spheres balanced (you won't die from old age at 60+ years with this king).


Spoilers



Beating The Devil! (Spoilers)
A tale of crusades, dungeons, and strawberries. Extreme spoilers lie ahead!

This is a solution to one of the biggest riddles in the game.

Prerequisites
If you would like to attempt to solve this riddle yourself, here are some tips. Note that the optional prerequisites provide a lot of information on how to beat the devil!

    Vase Questline - Aquire The Frozen Blood
    Basic Knowledge of Dungeon - Defeating Skeletons, Getting There, Door Effects
    Unmasking The Senate (Optional)
    Learning How To Trick The Devil Through The Mage (Optional)


Beating The Devil
Hover over the shaded black areas below to reveal all of the spoiler information. Due to steam formatting, this section looks somewhat buggy if not hovered over. There is nothing I can do about this :(
The Dungeon

    Enter the dungeon
    Find a torch from a Gold room chest.
    Enter the Fire door.
    Enter the Arsenic door.
    Enter the Acid door.
    Break the wall.
    Enter the Salpeter door.
    Enter the Devil door.


The door sequence correlates to the dates the Mage provides you. If you look at the timeline post/pre-game you can see symbols at each one of these dates. These symbols represent the order in which you should open the doors as listed above.

A skeleton will confront you; attack him (do not flee). He will trigger a fetch quest whereby you need to get strawberries for him.

The Strawberries


    Start a crusade.
    Wait for the Vase card.
    Use it to create strawberries.
    Enter the dungeon again.
    Use the same sequence to meet the skeleton.


The skeleton will, in turn, help you out when a sphere of influence gets low, providing you with yes/no options on playthroughs. Use the devil's curse that you acquire next to answer yes to him, in turn beating the devil since the skeleton is the devil!
